Assignment #6: Mapping the U.S. Census with Table Joins
Context
The United States Census Bureau is charged with collecting information about the population and the economy of the United States. The Census Bureau is perhaps best known for conducting the decennial U.S. Census:  every 10 years, the Census Bureau surveys every household in the United States to collect and tabulate basic demographic and economic information, including but not limited to population characteristics (counts, race/ethnicity, age, gender, etc.), housing characteristics, educational attainment, and economic activity.  The Census Bureau also conducts a smaller survey each year, known as the American Community Survey (ACS).  The ACS contains a wider variety of questions and data, but because the data are based on a sample rather than a complete census, all ACS data estimates are accompanied by a margin of error.  Data from both the ACS (available in newer but less accurate 1-year estimates and more accurate 5-year estimates) as well as the decennial census are available at no cost to the general public.

Many researchers use geographic census data to help us better understand the characteristics of American communities.  The United States Census Bureau aggregates demographic data to a variety of geographic scales.  We often think of states, counties, and municipalities as being the most important administrative divisions of the United States, but it is important to keep in mind that the Census Bureau, for the purpose of organizing demographic data, divides the entire country into tracts, block groups, and blocks (ordered in size from largest to smallest).  Therefore, looking at Census data aggregated by tract, block group, or block can help us to develop a more spatially detailed understanding of an area's demographic characteristics than would be possible from examining the characteristics of more spatially extensive entities.  

This week's content is a continuation of our ongoing work with spatial and attribute data in a GIS environment.  In particular, we are focusing upon the relational database management system (RDBMS) and the process of using table joins to connect attribute tables with separate spatial data layers on the basis of shared key fields. By the end of this unit, you will have a better understanding of how data is created, stored and retrieved in GIS.

For this unit's assignment, you will learn how to map data collected as a part of the 2016 American Community Survey.  You will download ACS data from the course website, join the downloaded attribute data to spatial data hosted by the U.S. Census Bureau, and create a series of choropleth maps.  As always, attention to detail is very important, so read through the assignment carefully and review the videos thoroughly once before your begin.

Learning Objectives
Once you have completed this assignment, you will have learned:

About the various geographic data aggregation levels used by the U.S. Census Bureau;
How to locate and download selected spatial data from the U.S. Census Bureau's collection of TIGER/Line shapefiles;
How to join data tables to spatial data on the basis of common attribute values (also known as shared keys);
How to create an aesthetically appealing choropleth map to visualize attribute data values.
Requirements
Your specific task for this assignment is to create four choropleth maps, each displaying the geographic distribution of a different quantitative data variable from the 2016 American Community Survey (ACS).  The data are provided to you on the course website at the Census tract level, covering tracts in Los Angeles County, California.  Note that you will need to download the corresponding TIGER/Line shapefile(s) for the appropriate data year from the U.S. Census Bureau TIGER/Line website and perform a table join to link each one of the ACS data profiles (DP-02, DP-03, DP-04, and DP-05) to the TIGER/Line geometry.  You will create a map of ONE of the selected data variables (listed below) from each of the four ACS data profiles.

Given the geography of Los Angeles County, you may wish to omit the Channel Islands from your maps to ensure that tracts within the more densely populated areas of the county are clearly visible.  You are also welcome to make use of inset maps should you find them to be helpful.

For this assignment, you will submit:

A PDF document containing at least four maps, with each map presenting one of the required data variables for tracts in Los Angeles County, California.  The required data are provided for you on the course website.  Note that the data are compartmentalized into four different files (Data Profiles from the ACS), each of which must be joined to your tracts shapefile.  All maps should include required map elements, including titles, neat lines, legends, data sources, and your name, and boundaries of neighboring counties should be included to provide geographic context for the maps;
Answers to the four questions listed below.  These answers should be written within your PDF document.
The following questions should be answered in your assignment submission:

What projection or geographic coordinate system (EPSG code and name) is used by the California Census tracts TIGER/Line shapefile?
How many Census tracts are present in California in the TIGER/Line shapefile?
In the maps you created, what patterns do you notice in the spatial distribution of the specified variables?  Make sure to discuss all of the variables and note whether the variable appears to be spatially clustered, dispersed, or randomly distributed.
Discuss whether any spatial relationships appear to be present among the data variables included in your maps.  For example, does the spatial distribution of any one of your variables appear to be similar to that of any other?  Similarly, what differences are noticeable?  Why might these similarities and differences be present?
The following data variables must be included in your maps (one per map):

One data variable from ACS DP-02:
Educational attainment:  Percent high school graduate or higher, OR;
Educational attainment:  Percent bachelor's degree or higher, OR;
Place of birth: Percent foreign born, OR;
Veteran status: Percent civilian veterans.
One data variable from ACS DP-03:
Median household income, OR;
Commuting: Mean travel time to work.
One data variable from ACS DP-04:
Housing value: Median, OR;
Gross rent: Median.
One data variable from ACS DP-05:
Race: Percent White, OR;
Race: Percent Black or African-American, OR;
Race: Percent American Indian / Alaska Native, OR;
Race: Percent Asian, OR;
Race: Percent Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander, OR;
Hispanic or Latino and Race: Percent Hispanic or Latino of any race.