Assignment #2: Telling Stories with Interactive Maps

Context
Maps can be used to creatively encode and share rich narratives of many different forms.  Your assignment for this second unit of Introduction to GIS is to use the new Web-based version of Google Earth to create your own interactive Web-based cartographic narrative.  Don't worry -- the software takes care of the technical heavy lifting.  Your task is to supply the content and to craft a compelling and engaging geographic narrative using maps, text, and media.  The result will be an interactive Web-based cartographic narrative that you can (1) share with other GIS class participants here on the course website, (2) share with friends and family, and (3) use to inaugurate your portfolio of professional-quality GIS work.



Learning Objectives
Upon completing this assignment, you will have learned:

More about how maps and geographic representations of information can be used to tell stories/narratives;
Different methods for constructing narratives using maps, and;
How to use the Google Earth platform to create Web-based narratives.

Requirements
Your interactive story map should take one of these two forms: 

Virtual Tour: Create an engaging virtual tour of your hometown or another city/region that you know very well.  Your virtual tour should be thematically unified (i.e. it should not consist of an unrelated collection of landmarks), and ideally, it should present the subject location in a manner that would be particularly compelling to people who are interested in, but do not have much prior knowledge, of the subject location.  Make your insider/local knowledge shine!
Journey Story:  Construct a geographic narrative around a journey that you or someone who interests you (a family member; a popular/historical figure; a group of people) made.  Your journey story should highlight the locations involved with different stages of the journey and communicate the significance of each location within the context of the journey.
No matter whether you create a virtual tour or a journey story, your story map should include: 

No fewer than ten locations;
Media (image/photo) for every location;
Compelling textual content for every location;
A narrative arc that ties all of the locations together in a meaningful way;
A relevant title and a description.

Steps / Additional Requirements
The technical screencast posted with this unit's content provides a thorough overview of the process of creating story maps using the Web-based version of Google Earth.  Note that this version of Google Earth is significantly different from the downloadable version that has been available for many years.  Please review this screencast in its entirety to get a sense of the steps required for this assignment.

For this assignment, you are required to submit a URL that points to your story map.  Please submit the URL directly rather than a file containing your URL.  Your map must have public sharing enabled in order for the map to be visible for purposes of grading.  Within Google's Web applications, the sharing setting that works best for your maps is labeled as "Anyone with the link".  Not sure if your map is properly configured for public sharing?  Try opening your link in private/incognito browsing mode, or within a different Web browser and/or from another computer.

Next Monday, we will start a "Story Map Gallery" forum discussion where you will be encouraged to post a link to and a description of your story map, if you feel comfortable sharing it with the class.