Assignment #9: Geoprocessing and Spatial Analysis - Policy Analysis Case Study
Context
In this assignment you will use QGIS to perform geoprocessing and spatial overlay analysis.  There are many practical applications of these types of analysis: you can use overlay analysis to aid in determining how many customers can be served by a store, looking at the potential impacts of airport noise on residential areas, or seeing how a road might impact animal migration routes, among many other such uses.  For this assignment, though, you will be assuming the role of a GIS Analyst for the City of Los Angeles -- and the work that you will complete within the scope of this assignment closely resembles actual spatial analysis tasks and responsibilities often given to professional GIS analysts.

Learning Objectives
to develop familiarity with geoprocessing tools and operations;
to perform spatial analysis with buffers;
to increase familiarity with selection, queries and managing geographic data;
to increase awareness about the research potential of geoprocessing tools and spatial analysis.
Requirements
Imagine that you are employed by the City of Los Angeles, California as a GIS analyst, and that the City Council has asked GIS staff to prepare maps showing the impacts of a proposed sidewalk sleeping ban upon the city's many neighborhoods in order to facilitate further study and refinement of the proposed policy.  To provide additional context, the City of Los Angeles has iteratively considered different strategies for coping with a housing shortage and homelessness crisis.  While policymakers are attempting to address the many facets of this crisis, particular attention has been paid to one of the enforcement strategies being considered by the City Council as of late 2019:  a ban on sleeping or camping within 500 feet of any of the following facilities:

Bridges and tunnels,
Bikeways,
Homeless shelters or service providers,
Parks and recreation facilities,
School campuses, and
Child care facilities.
The City of Los Angeles has provided you with a spatial database containing the locations of all of the above features (with the exception of child care facilities, considering privacy concerns) in addition to the boundaries of the city as well as the boundaries of the city's neighborhood councils.  (Neighborhood councils in Los Angeles are public advisory boards consisting of representatives elected by stakeholders within specified neighborhood council areas.)  

Your responsibility is to prepare a brief (ideally three page) but professionally-presented report covering the impacts of the proposed policy upon a neighborhood council area of your choice.  This will involve calculating a proposed sidewalk camping exclusion area consisting of a combined 500 foot buffer around all of the aforementioned features included in the provided spatial data.  You may choose any neighborhood council area represented within the dataset provided by the City of Los Angeles, but the neighborhood council area that you select must at least partially overlap the combined 500 foot exclusion area that you will calculate.

Your report must contain the following maps:

A map cleanly and clearly showing the locations of bridges, bikeways, homeless shelters, parks and recreation facilities, and school campuses within your selected neighborhood;
A map showing the proposed 500 foot exclusion area only within the selected neighborhood (i.e., the buffer area should be displayed only within the boundaries of the selected neighborhood council area.)  Neighborhood council zones should be labeled by name, and a basemap to provide context and reference should be included below the exclusion area using "Multiply" image blending on the exclusion area layer.
All maps must also include all required common map elements, including a title, your name, a description of the data source, a neat line, a scale bar, and a legend.  An appropriate tiled base map layer should be included to provide context for both maps.

In addition to the maps listed above, your report must present the following information, possibly in the form of infographics or data tables either atop the map or on a separate page:

The number of (1) homeless shelters and service facilities and (2) Los Angeles Unified School District school campuses within the neighborhood council area;
The total acreage of parks and recreation areas within the neighborhood council area.
Finally, you should include a short written summary of the possible consequences of this proposed policy for the neighborhood council area you selected.  This written summary, along with any figures/infographics included within it, should not exceed one page in length.

Instructions
Begin by watching the technical screencasts on the QGIS Video Library page.  The videos provide a general walkthrough of the steps required to complete this activity, but keep in mind that you are ultimately responsible for ensuring that your submission meets the stated requirements of the assignment.  It is recommended that you follow along with the procedures demonstrated in the videos, but note that some additional steps not explicitly covered in this week's videos are required to complete the assignment.